Introduction
------------
The schema and queries of the TPC-H benchmark are widely used by people
in the database community. One of the requirements of the benchmark is 
that data for columns in the database are generated from a uniform 
distribution. However, this requirement makes it hard for users to 
conclude about the robustness/effectiveness of their system using 
only TPC-H. We have therefore created a new data loading program for 
TPC-H that is capable of generating a database where the columns have
non-uniform (skewed) data distributions. In particular, the loading 
program can generate data from a Zipfian distribution, where the 
Zipf value (z), which controls the degree of skew in the data, is a 
parameter that can be specified to the program. This program supports 
any real value of z >= 0. For example, the parameter z=0 generates a 
uniform distribution for each column in the database, whereas z=4 
generates a highly-skewed distribution (i.e., a few values occur 
very frequently) for each column. In addition, the program allows 
the generation of a database with “mixed” data distribution where 
the skew of a column in the database is randomly chosen from the 
Zipfian values {0,1,2,3,4}. Note that the total number of rows in 
the tables and the total database size are not affected by our changes.

Usage
-----
The program dbgen in this directory generates TPC-H data with skewed 
distributions. We refer the user to the README file in this directory 
which explains each parameter to dbgen in detail. Here we describe 
the additional parameter that we have introduced:

	dbgen <other_parameters>  -z <zipfValue>

zipfValue is any real value between 0 and 4 or the value -1. The program 
generates data for each column in the database from the Zipfian distribution 
with the specified z value. If zipfValue is -1, the program assigns a 
random skew value from the set {0, 1, 2, 3, 4} to each column in the 
database; and generates data for that column with the assigned skew value.
Therefore a parameter value of -1 option allows the user the ability to 
create a database where different columns have different degree of skew. 
If the -z option is not used, data is generated for all columns from a 
uniform distribution (i.e., it is equivalent to -z 0).

Examples
--------
1.dbgen.exe -s 0.1 -z 2
The above command creates a TPC-H database with scaling factor 0.1 where 
data in each column is generated from a Zipfian distribution where the 
degree of skew (z) is 2.

2.dbgen.exe -s 0.1 -z 1.6
This example shows that z need not be an integer. In this example, each 
column has a skew of 1.6.

3.dbgen.exe -s 1.0 -z -1
The above command creates a TPC-H database with scaling factor 1.0 where 
data in each column is generated from a Zipfian distribution where the 
degree of skew is picked uniformly at randomly from the set {0,1,2,3,4}.

Source files
------------
No new source files have been added for the above modification. The files
that have been modified from the original version are:
  dss.h, rnd.h, rnd.c, driver.c, build.c, print.c, text.c, 
  speed_seed.c, permute.c, varsub.c.

Other Notes
-----------
1. These changes affect each column in the database where the data 
   was previously being generated from a uniform data distribution. 

2. Because of the way rows in orders and lineitem are generated, the number 
   of rows in the lineitem table can be slightly different, (a few rows) 
   from that using the old generation program. 

3. The file data_distribution.sql contains queries that output the 
   distribution (i.e. count of each distinct value) of various columns in 
   the database.
   
4. The maximum scale allowed is 30000 (that is 30TB of data). If scale is 
   greater, then the RANDOM64 methods must be modified appropriately.


-----------------
Original Authors: Surajit Chaudhuri, Vivek Narasayya
Modified by: Herodotos Herodotou
Modification Date: 11/10/2008
